This Document provides a short description of MurphyTV.

1. How to connect to a data source 

In the main window ( the little one ) ,you can directly enter a source in the
"Data Source" text entry field.

If you want to look at a local file, simply enter the name here.
(Or click on [...] for a fileselection dialog)
For remote files (RFIO) enter Filename@Hostname 
To connect to the online data stream, enter @Hostname:
After you entered the data source ,press ENTER or click on [Connect]
to start analysing the data.
The status bar below should now say "Connected" (For online data, it can take
a few seconds )

You can connect at any time to a new data source.
If you do this, all the informations gathered from the old data are lost.

You can click on [Disconnect] to stop analysing data.
The informations gathered so far are not lost in this case. 

You can also enter a mapping file (or directory with mapping files) in the "Mapping File"
text entry field.
This is only used to display the names of the detectors connected to a sourceID.
It is not mandatory to use a mapping file.

2. How to display the Errors

In the main window, click on [Display] .Another window pops up.
(The Display window does not affect the data analysis in any way.
You can open and close it at any time.)

There are 6 different sections :

2.1 The "Monitor" section

On the top, you see some general informations:

-The run number,as well as the date and time and Trigger Number of the event which 
 is currently analysed. 

-The number of events analysed.

-The total number of errors found in the analysed events, as well as this number per
 analysed event.
 
-The number of different SourceIDs (e.g. CATCH boards) found in the data

-The number of SourceIDs which appeared in some events (or are in the list mentioned),
 but not in all events.
 
-The number of SourceIDs on which not a single error was found.

-The avarage event size (including all kind of headers )

Below , you see a message window. If an error appears on a sourceID ,or if the avarage 
number of events with an error on a sourceID changes dramatically, a short message is 
displayed here. 

At the bottom, there is an alarm text. It turns red if new error messages appear.
If you have read them, click on the button at the right to turn the alarm off till
there are new error messages again.

To get a description of the different errors, go to the "Errors" section.  

2.2 The "Errors" section

Here you have a table in which for each kind of error it is displayed:

-How often it occured.

-How often it occured on the selected SourceID. You can enter this sourceID in the
 "SrcID=" text entry field.
 
-How many of the events are infected with this error.

-The same for the selected sourceID. 

-The number of sourceId's on which the error occured.

The counts are normed to the number of recorded events until you uncheck the
"Normalize" check box.

If you check the "Show only errors on SrcID" checkbox, only errors are shown which
appear on the selected sourceID.
If you enter a sourceID, this option is automatically selected.

If you click on an error, a short description is displayed at the bottom.

If you double-click on an error, the "Catches" section is displayed with the error
selected as the special interest. Do this to learn on which sourceIDs the error occures. 


2.3 The "Catches" section

This is an overview over all SourceIDs in the data, as well as about the Ports of a selected
SourceID.

The upper table contains for each SourceID the following informations:

-Type: The abbreviations taken from [Compass Notes 8-2001] for the different detectors, for which different SourceID ranges are reserved. 
 
-#Errors: The number of errors on this SourceID.  

-#Headers: The number of header words coming from the frontends of the SourceID.
 This does NOT include the SLink Header
 (For GEMs, all words are currently counted as data, so this should be zero)
 
-#Data: The number of data words coming from the frontends of the SourceID.

-BadEvnt: The number of events which had one or more errors.

-Special: The number of errors of the type you can select in the "Special" combo box.
 Use this combo box if you want to know which SourceIDs are producing the error you
 are interested in.

-eg. at :The first trigger number where the error selected with the "Special" combo box
 occured. This is useful if you want to see the error with eventDumpAll in the data
 yourself.
 If this is 2^N for some errors this may indicate that there is an hardware bit error
 somewhere.

The number of errors,header and data words can be normed to the number of recorded
events with the "Normalize" check box.(Value NOT in %, 1.000 means 1 error per event). 
You can chose how to sort the list by clicking on the buttons at the top of the table.

If you double-click a line ,the "Errors" Tab is displayed with this sourceID selected.
Do this to get a list of all error types that occured on a sourceID.

If you click on a SourceID, in the lower table for each Port or GeographicID on
that SourceID the number of errors,data and header words are displayed.

Some informations are associated only to a port number in the data, others to a
GeoID, and some to both. Latter case is used to associate also the geoId based
informations to port numbers, and geoIDs to port numbers.
If the program does not know that some informations associated to geoID xyz came
from port# uvw there is one line displayed for port# uvw and geoID "???", and
another for port# "???" and geoID xyz.

For GEMs, this table is always empty.

In the "Attached Detectors" window at the bottom, the names of the detectors connected
to the selected sourceID are displayed. This information comes from the mapping file(s).
If no mapping file(s) are selected, no names are displayed.


2.4 The "History" section

Here you can see the number of errors plotted versus trigger number.
Number of errors means the number of recorded errors which fall in one 5000 trigger-
number bin normalised to the number of recorded events in that bin.

You can display all errors, all errors of a given category or single errors.
Select this with the combo boxes on the bottom.


2.5 The "Event Sizes" section

In this histogram the distribution of the total event size (including headers) coming
from a given SourceID is displayed.
The SourceID can be selected in the "SourceID" text entry.

2.6 The "Data Flow" section

Here the total event size per recorded event is plotted versus the trigger number.
The histogram's bin size is 5000 Trigger numbers.


3. Command line options

To open the display window at start use -d
To connect to a data source at startup use -s DataSource  
To specify a mapping file use -m Mapfile
To specifiy a file containing a list of all CATCHES in compass, use -C
To analyze ONLY events with calibration triggers, use -C
To display  MurphyTV in a small window with small fonts, use -f


4. How to contact the author

Send bug reports, critics and suggestions to :

Christian.Schill@cern.ch




