


- What is MySQLDB ?
-------------------

MySQLDB is a new handler to access to the calibration data in Coral. It is
built on CDB scheme like FileDB, then not any change must be done in Coral
(more exactly, needed changes have already been done a month ago !).
Calibration data are still stored in files in AFS, but it uses a database
to access to them. This allows easier and more flexible ways to access to
these data, in particular it is possible to get calibration files
registered before a given date, even when new files have been added after.


- How it works ?
----------------

MySQLDB is built arround the MySQL database server used for the electronic
logbook, pccoeb03 (mirrored in tbed014d). It serves a table where all the
calibration files are registered. For each file, this table stores:
. a unique ID of this file
. the detector name related to this file (the TBname in fact)
. a detector type name (basically the two first letters of the detector
name)
. the type of the calibration file (for most of them it's "default", but
some detectors, like GEMS, uses different types of files like "timing")
. the begin and the end times of the validity period
. the date and time when this file has been registered
. the name of the user who has registered this file
. where to find that file

Each of these informations can be used to select calibration files, but
actually I have implemented in Coral this algorythm: for a given detector,
a given type and a given date (or a given run, the start of run date is
taken), it selects the files related to that detector and type, with that
date included in their validity period, and then it takes the file with
the more recent registration time. A maximum registration time can be
given, in this case the file with the more recent registration time before
that maximum will be taken.

Note that calibration data are still stored in files like FileDB, with
structures which are the same as FileDB files, but in a different place
than FileDB (then not in compass/calibration/2002, the real place is not
too difficult to find...). But, if you want to modify the calibration data
for a given detector and a given validity period, please DO NOT modify
these files directly ! Instead, please just add a new file (see below for
that part). Otherwise it will be not possible to get history of the
calibration files.


- How can I enable that in Coral ?
----------------------------------

Firstable, you must activate MySQL in Coral (configure flag --with-MySQL
activated, this is the case by default, don't forget to do a cvs update, I
have committed some changes recently). Then the option file must have
these lines:

use calibration
CDB use MySQLDB
// and of course no CDB use FileDB !!
CDB server tbed014d
// or CDB server pccoeb03
// pccoeb03 is located in 888 (with powercuts sometime...)
// tbed014d is located in computer center (less powercuts !)
// a new server reachable from outside Cern is foreseen for april
//
// This option forces MySQLDB to take files registered before this date:
// CDB entrytime 2002-10-31-19:53:00

and it works !


- How can I have a look on the content of the database ?
--------------------------------------------------------

There are two specific pages in the logbook web server (see at the end of
the left frame on the logbook pages). One gives a list of all the entries,
the second allows to do a selection on that list with several criterions.
A link for each entry gives a look on the calibration file content.


- How can I add new files ?
---------------------------

Actually there are two tools to do that. There are both located in
coral/src/condb/mysqldb/Utils (do a make in this directory). They both
require a password to work, which is the Compass standard one.

. addFileInDB add a file to the database (it registers it and copy it to
the right place). It requires mandatory options and the calibration file
name to work (like: addFileInDB -begin <begin of validity date> -end <end
of validity date> -detname <detector name> <calib file>), type addFileInDB
alone for help.

. loadOldFileInDB is used to register files with FileDB-like names. It
requires one or many file or directory names as arguments, and it
registers (and copy to the right place) each file with a good FileDB-like
name. If some argument are directory names, it scans the content of that
directory looking for these FileDB-like files. The detector name, type of
calib, and validity period are taken from the name, the registration time
is taken from the UNIX file last modification time (and not the time when
loadOldFileInDB is run), and the owner of the file is taken as registerer
name (and not the login name who has launched this command). This command
can be used to synchronize the MySQLDB database from the FileDB directory
(a file with the same detector name and type, the same validity period,
and the same registration time as an already registered file is not
registered a second time). Please run this command with
/afs.../calibrations/2002 as argument if you add FileDB files in that
directory (anyway, I plan to do that myself from time to time !)


- How can I remove an entry of that database ?
----------------------------------------------

Arrggghhh NO you can't !! Just add a new file with the right validity
period, which will overload the old one (this one must be still available
with a maximum registration time). Well, if some files have been added by
mistake, we can always do an exception, just contact me...


Damien Neyret
damien.neyret@cern.ch

